College Details:
About College:
Name: Leelaben Dashrathbhai Ramdas Patel Institute of Technology and Research (also known as LDRP-ITR).
Website link:  https://www.ldrp.ac.in/
Type: Private engineering and research institute.
Established: 2005 
Trust/Management: Managed by Sarva Vidhyalaya Kelavani Mandal, a philanthropic trust in North Gujarat.
Location: KH, 5, Rd No. 5, Sector 15, Near KH-5, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382016, India.
Contact:
* Phone: +91 79 2324 1492.
* Email: info@ldrp.ac.in
* Fax: 91-079-23241493
Affiliation: Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (KSV), Gandhinagar.
Accreditation: Approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).
Campus: Urban campus; wheelchair accessible entrance and parking lot.
Operating Hours: Monday to Saturday, 8 am–8 pm; closed Sunday.
Undergraduate Programs: Offers several Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) programs
Postgraduate Programs: Offers programs including M.B.A. and M.C.A.
Admission Process: Admission through ACPC (Admission Committee for Professional Courses) procedure; there is no Management or NRI quota
Scholarships: Means and Meritorious Scholarship available for students
Library: Air-conditioned library
Transportation: Transportation facility available from all routes of Ahmedabad
Hostel Facility: Separate hostel facilities for boys and girls
ATM Facility: ATM facility available on campus
Fee Structure: Fees as per Fee Regulatory Committee norms
Fees per semester: 60,000/-
Fees per Year: 1,20,000/-
Research Grants: Research project grants provided to faculties and students
Placement Partners: Includes L&T Infotech, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Syntel, iGate Patni, MPhasis, eInfochip, IBM, Persistent, Cognizent, TCS, amdocs, ZEUS Learning, ESSAR, AXELOR, BOSCH, GIPL, DRC System, argusoft, TATVA Soft, ADANI, MAVEN VISTA, VERSE, RELIANCE, ANCHOR, TEGA Industries, KALYANI, and more


University Name: Kadi Sarva Vidyalaya
Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya is a University established vide Gujarat State Government Act 21 of 2007 in May 2007 and approved by UGC (ref F. 9-18/2008(cpp-1) March 19,2009).
The University has been established by Sarva Vidyalaya Kelavani Mandal to achieve the following objectives:


To provide need-based education and develop courses of contemporary relevance.
To be a University of excellence by providing research-based activities which would foster higher economic growth.
To provide education to all irrespective of caste, creed, religion etc.
The University has at present 19 Constituent Colleges/Departments at Gandhinagar and Kadi.


Phone : 09408801690
Email : info@ksv.ac.in
Website:https://ksv.ac.in/


Mandal Name: Sarva Vidyalaya Kelvani Mandal 
Sarva Vidyalaya Kelvani Mandal has been established in the year 1919, by philanthropist Pujya Chhaganbha. The basic principle preached by him “Kar Bhala Hoga Bhala” has been driving force for the growth of the education activities managed by the trust. Having started with just 6 students then, today the trust manages and runs various schools and colleges both at Kadi and Gandhinagar with more than 46000 students being educated. Of these 46000 students, around 5800 students both boys and girls stay in the hostels being managed by trust.


Branches:
Computer Engineering:
Established in 2005, the Computer Engineering department of LDRP Institute of Technology and Research offers Bachelor of Engineering (B. E.) and Master of Engineering (M. E.) programmes in Computer Engineering. The undergraduate B. E. programme is current intake of 180 students where as the M. E. is having the intake of 18. Admissions to both these programmes are carried out by the Government nominated admission committee (http://jacpcldce.ac.in). The department has adequate and well-qualified doctorate faculty members who also act as supervisors for Ph.D. programme being run by affiliating university viz. Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (https://ksvuniversity.org.in/). Active research and post-graduate dissertation is being carried out in department under various facets viz. Cloud computing, data/web mining, networking, image processing, soft computing, IoT etc. Equipped with latest tools and hardware, the department offers state of the art infrastructures to its students for their all round development. Collaboration of various significant stakeholders such as alumni, industry, academia and parents, department resolute to offer all aspects of teaching learning process before the students. Various curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities provide platform to the students to grow freely.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name:Dr. Ashishkumar Patel
Designation: Assistant Professor
Qualification: PHD, ME (CSE), BE (CE), Diploma (CE)
Experience: Teaching: 19.4 Years
                      Industry: 0.0years
Area: Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning
Email: ashish_ce@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:53
No. of labs:17


Information Of Technology(IT) Engineering:
Established Year : 2008


Mission: To be a renowned department for educating the students with essential technicality and skills of computer engineering to resolve the challenges and issues in real-world while emphasizing multi-disciplinary research and development leading to betterment of society.
Vision: To establish the department with teaching and research identity in the domain of computer engineering in responding to the challenges in the world of 21st century with a profound zeal for astuteness, ethnicity and principles.
.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: DR. MEHUL P. BAROT
Designation: Professor & Head
Qualification: Ph.D, ME(CE), BE(CE)
Date of Joining: 10-07-2008
Experience:        
             Teaching:        23.10 Years
               Industry:        0.0 Years
Area:        Data Science,Cyber Security, Computer Vision, Computer Network
Email: mehul_ce@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:18
No. of labs:17


Electronics and Communication Engineering:
The EC Engineering (Electronics and Communication) Department was established in year 2006. The Department started with under graduate programme in Electronics and Communication Engineering.


The first most prime important mission of the EC department is to produce the engineer to use their skill for entrepreneurship. The Department has well qualified faculties and technical assistants. The Department has reach library with technical journals. Our efforts will be to have the proper placement of the Graduate engineers through our LDRP-ITR. Contribute to overall techno-economical development of the State in particular and Nation in general and improve quality of life of communities.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name DR. SHRIDHAR E. MENDHE
Designation:  Professor
Qualification: Ph.D. (EC)
Date of Joining: 08/07/2006
Experience:        
      Teaching: 30.0 Years
      Industry:        0.0 Years
Area: Antenna and Wave Propagation
Email:        mendhe_ec@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:13
No. of labs:8


Electrical Engineering:
About Department :


The Department of civil engineering has been functioning since 2011 and has grown into a full-fledged department with specializations in all the major areas of Civil Engineering. The department has produced several eminent engineers who have made significant contributions in the planning and execution of Civil Engineering projects in India as well as abroad. The department has highly qualified faculty members engaged in teaching with the aim of achieving excellence in various fields. The faculty members are specialized in different disciplines of Civil Engineering.
 


Civil Engineering deals with creating designs, constructing and maintaining physical structures including rails, roads, bridges, buildings, dams, etc. Civil Engineering is one of the highly critical engineering domains where a perfectly built structure can facilitate people with much comfort but a minor mistake made by an engineer can take away hundreds of lives in seconds. So, deep knowledge and perfect understanding of the concepts and requirements of civil engineering is highly desirable. This perfection in learning starts with the search of a good engineering college whose only aim is to produce highly skilled professionals with adequate knowledge and competency. LDRP-ITR is the Best Civil Engineering College in Gandhinagar and Ahmadabad Region end up this search by providing highly quality and reliable teaching and training curriculum and facilities to the students.
 


The department has well equipped laboratories, namely mechanics of solids, structural analysis & software labs, concrete technology lab, soil mechanics lab, Environmental Engineering lab, Earthquake Engineering lab, Highway Engineering lab and surveying lab. The state of art infrastructure including high speed internet facility keeps the students well in advanced for various fields


Faculties:
No. of faculties: 13
No. of labs: 8




Electrical Engineering:
Department Established year:  2005-06.


Total number of laboratories with Names:


Electrical Machine
High Voltage Engineering
Power system Protection
Power Electronics/ microcontroller/ microprocessor
Basic electrical engineering/department workshop
Power system simulation
Electrical Measurements and Measuring Instrument/industrial instruments
Analog and digital Electronics
Control system/ control theory


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: DR.SANJAY.R.VYAS
Designation:  Professor
Qualification: Ph.D.(Electrical) MBA(HR)
Date of Joining: 01/08/2005
Experience:        
             Teaching: 15.0 Years
             Industry: 5.0 Years
Area: power system
Email: srvyas_ee@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties: 13
No. of labs: 9


 Mechanical Engineering:
The Department of Mechanical Engineering came in to being in the year 2005.


Admissions to U.G. and P.G. programmes are carried out by the Government nominated admission committee (http://jacpcldce.ac.in).


At present, Department offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses as follows:


B.E.[Mechanical Engineering]                           :           60


M.E.[Mechanical – Production Engineering] :           12


M.E.[Mechanical – Thermal Engineering]      :           12


Also, the Department has a Skill Development Centre in the area of CNC/VMC with modern facilities in CAD/CAM along with due approval from The Centre for Entrepreneurship Development (Government of Gujarat) since 2017.


The department has well equipped laboratory and workshop facilities with modern sophisticated equipment to carry out research in all areas related to Mechanical Engineering.


Faculties:
Head Of Department(HOD):
Name: PROF. (DR.) DIVYANG H. PANDYA
Designation:  Professor & Head (Mechanical Engineering)
Qualification: PH.D- IIT ROORKEE
Date of Joining: 10/7/2006
Experience:        
          Teaching: 25.0 Years
          Industry: 1.8 Years
Area: Non- linear Dynamics, Vibration Analysis, Design and Dynamics, Digital Signal Processing and soft computing in Mechanical Engineering
Email: hod_me@ldrp.ac.in


No. of faculties:35
No. of labs:11